.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

<!--
Please make sure to read the Pull Request Guidelines:
https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/blob/dev/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md#pull-request-guidelines
-->

<!-- PULL REQUEST TEMPLATE -->
<!-- (Update "[ ]" to "[x]" to check a box) -->

**What kind of change does this PR introduce?** (check at least one)
<!--
If you are introducing a new binding, you must reference an issue where this binding has been proposed, discussed and approved by the maintainers.
-->

- [ ] Bugfix
- [ ] Feature
- [ ] New Binding Issue #___
- [ ] Code style update
- [ ] Refactor
- [ ] Build-related changes
- [ ] Other, please describe:

**Does this PR introduce a breaking change?** (check one)
<!--
If yes, please describe the impact and migration path for existing applications in an attached issue. Filing a PR with breaking changes that has not been discussed and approved by the maintainers in an issue will be immediately closed.
-->

- [ ] Yes. Issue #___
- [ ] No


**The PR fulfills these requirements:**

- [ ] It's submitted to the `dev` branch and _not_ the `master` branch
- [ ] When resolving a specific issue, it's referenced in the PR's title (e.g. `fix: #xxx[,#xxx]`, where "xxx" is the issue number)

If adding a **new feature**, the PR's description includes:
- [ ] A convincing reason for adding this feature (to avoid wasting your time, it's best to open a suggestion issue first and wait for approval before working on it)

**Other information:**

Commit message:

feature: implement version change PR (#676)
* update readme with notes about character limits and designating bumps

* edit PR template to note addition of a change file

* add change file for #674

* add change file for #673

* add change file for #672

* add change file for #671

* add version action

* set version command in config

* add change file for #677

* add labels to PRs

* Update .changes/tauri-info-crash.md

Co-authored-by: Rajiv Shah <rajivshah1@icloud.com>

* Update .changes/HttpRequestBuilder-implementation.md

Co-authored-by: Rajiv Shah <rajivshah1@icloud.com>

* Update kill-beforeDevProcess-on-shutdown.md

* Update reflect-conf-changes.md

Co-authored-by: Rajiv Shah <rajivshah1@icloud.com>
Co-authored-by: Lucas Fernandes Nogueira <lucasfernandesnog@gmail.com>

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

<!--
Please make sure to read the Pull Request Guidelines:
https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/blob/dev/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md#pull-request-guidelines
-->

<!-- PULL REQUEST TEMPLATE -->
<!-- (Update "[ ]" to "[x]" to check a box) -->

**What kind of change does this PR introduce?** (check at least one)
<!--
If you are introducing a new binding, you must reference an issue where this binding has been proposed, discussed and approved by the maintainers.
-->

- [ ] Bugfix
- [ ] Feature
- [ ] New Binding Issue #___
- [ ] Code style update
- [ ] Refactor
- [ ] Build-related changes
- [ ] Other, please describe:

**Does this PR introduce a breaking change?** (check one)
<!--
If yes, please describe the impact and migration path for existing applications in an attached issue. Filing a PR with breaking changes that has not been discussed and approved by the maintainers in an issue will be immediately closed.
-->

- [ ] Yes. Issue #___
- [ ] No


**The PR fulfills these requirements:**

- [ ] It's submitted to the `dev` branch and _not_ the `master` branch
- [ ] When resolving a specific issue, it's referenced in the PR's title (e.g. `fix: #xxx[,#xxx]`, where "xxx" is the issue number)
- [ ] A change file is added if any packages will require a version bump due to this PR per [the instructions in the readme](https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/blob/dev/.changes/readme.md).

If adding a **new feature**, the PR's description includes:
- [ ] A convincing reason for adding this feature (to avoid wasting your time, it's best to open a suggestion issue first and wait for approval before working on it)

**Other information:**
