cli/tauri.js/README.md, before:

# tauri
 <img align="right" src="app-icon.png" height="128" width="128">

## A fresh take on creating cross-platform apps.
[![status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Early%20Alpha-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/quasarframework/quasar/tree/tauri)
[![Chat Server](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20discord-7289da.svg)](https://discord.gg/SpmNs4S)
[![devto](https://img.shields.io/badge/blog-dev.to-black.svg)](https://dev.to/tauri)

![](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/tauri-apps/tauri/test%20library?label=test%20library
)
[![devto](https://img.shields.io/badge/documentation-site-purple.svg)](https://tauri.studio)

[![https://good-labs.github.io/greater-good-affirmation/assets/images/badge.svg](https://good-labs.github.io/greater-good-affirmation/assets/images/badge.svg)](https://good-labs.github.io/greater-good-affirmation)
[![support](https://img.shields.io/badge/sponsor-Opencollective-blue.svg)](https://opencollective.com/tauri)


Tauri is a tool for building tiny, blazing fast binaries for all major desktop platforms. You can use any front-end framework that compiles to HTML,JS and CSS for building your interface.

| Component | Version |
|-----------|---------|
| tauri.js  | ![](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/tauri.svg)


Please visit the main readme for further information about contributing.

## Installation

The preferred method is to install this module globally:
```
$ npm install --global tauri
```

You can also add it to your project and use it locally - maybe helpful for some CI pipelines:
```
$ yarn add --dev tauri
```

## License
MIT

Commit message:

chore(readmes): updates to Licenses and body

cli/tauri.js/README.md, after:

# tauri
 <img align="right" src="app-icon.png" height="128" width="128">

## A fresh take on creating cross-platform apps.
[![status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Early%20Alpha-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/quasarframework/quasar/tree/tauri)
[![Chat Server](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20discord-7289da.svg)](https://discord.gg/SpmNs4S)
[![devto](https://img.shields.io/badge/blog-dev.to-black.svg)](https://dev.to/tauri)

![](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/tauri-apps/tauri/test%20library?label=test%20library
)
[![devto](https://img.shields.io/badge/documentation-site-purple.svg)](https://tauri.studio)

[![https://good-labs.github.io/greater-good-affirmation/assets/images/badge.svg](https://good-labs.github.io/greater-good-affirmation/assets/images/badge.svg)](https://good-labs.github.io/greater-good-affirmation)
[![support](https://img.shields.io/badge/sponsor-Opencollective-blue.svg)](https://opencollective.com/tauri)


Tauri is a tool for building tiny, blazing fast binaries for all major desktop platforms. You can use any front-end framework that compiles to HTML,JS and CSS for building your interface.

| Component | Version |
|-----------|---------|
| tauri.js  | ![](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/tauri.svg)


Please visit the main readme for further information about contributing.

## Installation

The preferred method is to install this module locally as a dev dependency:
```
$ npm install --save-dev tauri
$ yarn add --dev tauri
```

## Semver
**tauri** is following [Semantic Versioning 2.0](https://semver.org/).

## Licenses
Code: (c) 2015 - present - Daniel Thompson-Yvetot, Lucas Nogueira, Tensor, Boscop, Serge Zaitsev, George Burton and all the other amazing contributors.

MIT or MIT/Apache where applicable.

Logo: CC-BY-NC-ND
- Original Tauri Logo Designs by [Daniel Thompson-Yvetot](https://github.com/nothingismagick) and [Guillaume Chau](https://github.com/akryum)
